bitcoin-receive-payments
===================
Allow your service to receive bitcoin payments **directly from the bitcoin P2P network**.

Payment notifications are received **live**, directly from the bitcoin network in less than 4 seconds.

An unique bitcoin address is used for each payment, and all funds go to the same wallet, using a [Deterministic Wallet](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Deterministic_wallet) public key. 

Motivation
--
This module eliminates the need of a [payment API](https://blockchain.info/es/api/api_receive) like the one provided by [blockchain.info](https://blockchain.info/) making bitcoin payments even more private and secure.

Bitcoin is designed to remove intermediaries, this module intends exactly that.

Security
--

No private key is stored in the server, so **funds cannot be stolen even if the server get's hacked**.

Backend
--
This modules uses the [insight-api](https://github.com/bitpay/insight-api) that is already running on many reliable servers online.

Install
--------------------

> npm install bitcoin-receive-payments --save

Initialization
---

```javascript
const pub_key = 'xpub6CV... extended public key (xPub)'
const openexchangerates_key = 'd1c95b7b... key from openexchangerates.org' // to automatically convert USD amounts to BTC at real time rates
```

Initialize the payment gateway inside in your nodejs app:
```javascript
const BitcoinGateway = require('bitcoin-receive-payments')
const gateway = new BitcoinGateway(pub_key, openexchangerates_key)
```


Obtaining an Extended Public Key (xPub) 
----
xPubs can be created any bitcoin wallet that supports [BIT32](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki) you can also [create one online](http://bip32.org/) but I wouldn't recommend it.

I do recommend visiting [http://bip32.org/](http://bip32.org/) to better understand how Deterministic Wallets work.

For example, the **bitpay** wallet (desktop version) automatically creates one for you, in the it's located at: 
> **Settings -> Personal Wallet -> More Options -> Wallet Information -> Copayer 0**

On **Copay** (iOS) wallet:
> **Settings -> Advanced -> Wallet Information -> Copayer 0**

This public key (xPub) will not allow the gateway to use any funds in your wallet, but will allow the gateway to create as many child public addresses as needed, to receive all the payments from your customers.

Accept payments
--

Every time you want to allow the user to make you a Bitcoin payment, all you need is an unique_ID for that user in your database, and use that unique_ID to create an ***bitcoin address*** for him to pay at, for example:

```javascript
var unique_ID = 5554555 // get this from your database

gateway.createAddress(unique_ID)
.then(function(address) {

    console.log('got new address', address.address, 'and it has', address.seconds_left / 60, 'minutes left before it expires.')
    
    var amount = 3.99
    
    console.log('ask user to pay ', amount, 'USD in it as', gateway.USDtoBIT(amount) + ' bits, using HTML, preferably as a QR code')
    
}).catch(function() {
    console.log('limit reached! cant get a new address :(')
})
```
Would output:
```
created new address 1K2xWPtGsvg5Sa2X7URZ5VfU8xS62McbXz and it has 14 minutes left before it expires.
ask user to pay 3.99 USD (3763.63610805 bits) using HTML, preferably as a QR code
```

Process payments
--

With that address (**1K2xWPtGsvg5Sa2X7URZ5VfU8xS62McbXz**) you can now ask the user to make the payment, using a QR code, and a ***fancy user interface***.

On your service backend, any payment done to that address sent to your wallet will trigger a **payment** event that must be handled as follows:
```javascript
gateway.events.on('payment', function(payment) {
  console.log('got a payment!.', payment)
})
```
So that if someone makes a payment to that address, you will receive a notification it in matter of seconds:
```
got a payment!. 
{ address: '1K2xWPtGsvg5Sa2X7URZ5VfU8xS62McbXz',
  amount: 380600,
  id: '5554555',
  usd_amount: 4.034911868211425 }
````

With this information you can perfectly know that the user with the unique_id **5554555** is the one who made the payment of the **$3.99** (usd_amount field) and process it accordingly (some cents difference will always happen depending on exchange rate of the moment). Preferably updating the user interface on the fly, using some real-time communitacion like [socket.io](https://socket.io/).

**Note:**

The ***payment*** events will also be triggered at **gateway.connect()** if there are payments that happened when the server was reloading/restarting or just turned off. So make sure to handle the ***payment*** event, before starting the gateway with:

```javascript
gateway.connect()
```

The **initialized** event means that the gateway is ready and monitoring the bitcoin network so to detect any payment made to any of the newly created addresses generated by the gateway. 

```javascript
gateway.events.on('initialized', function() {
  console.log('gateway has been intialized.')
  // start creating addresses after the initialized event
  // gateway.createAddress(unique_id)...
});
```

Address expiration timer
--

All newly created addresses have a 15 minutes countdown, it is a consequence of a limitation imposed by [BIP0044](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0044.mediawiki).

**It is important to show the user the time it has left to pay to a given bitcoin address, and to handle it's expiration (address renewal) appropriately, preferably showing a live minutes:seconds countdown**

[BIP0044](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0044.mediawiki) defines that when recovering a [Deterministic Wallet](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Deterministic_wallet), all child addresses are re-created to recover all the funds on each one of them, if 20 consecutive child addresses are checked and no funds are found, it finishes recovering and no more are checked, assuming there is no more funds in any more child-addresses.

All this, ensures that no child addresses are created if existing ones haven't been used, defining a maximum of 20 simultaneous unused addresses, all this is handled automatically by this module.

The number of minutes can be modified towards improving user experience, only keep in mind that the objective is to ensure that no addresses are left unused.

Countdowns included
--

This module automatically makes sure to reuse addresses that haven't received a payment. Giving them 15min for each customer/user to use them or get a new one, if during this time, there is no payment to it, the address will be freeded to be reused.